# P3 Intro

# Project #3 Build a Full-stack Django App

### Overview

You’ve already worked in small groups to accomplish various labs and exercises, but this time **we’re going to challenge determine what you want to build and if you will be working as a team, or solo.**

With this project you'll be building an exciting full-stack app that uses the Django Web Framework.

You'll likely be working as part of a team in the workplace and **this project will provide you with that important team development experience.** However, as we’ve already seen, **working on a project as part of a team can be more challenging** due to logistical reasons, differing opinions, etc. 

If you are working on a team, ****your team size will be capped at 2**, unless team size increase is approved by your instructors.  

Whether you are working solo or as part of a team,  you will architect, design, and build a full-stack web app. During this project, **your instructors are going to be evaluating your ability to**:

- Determine team structure / roles / vision
- Estimate project scope
- Create and document project milestones
- Demonstrate version control standards and workflow
- Build a fully functional Django application

## Planning & Presentation Requirements

### Pitch Deck - Presented By Your Team on 4.18.23

**Pitch your project** to the class with a [pitch deck](https://slidebean.com/blog/what-is-a-pitch-deck-presentation-meaning) that includes:

- The application name.
- Your team members and their roles. (If applicable)
- The problem you are going to solve with your app.
- Check out previous decks: [Tripio](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gvOypLc4VjKqJzdAW68iwh28uGDSH4Sp1KnA5grDo2g/edit#slide=id.p), [Pantry](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WvHoN5MNaRembgcoog5p0GtivVCOZSzvfPyeevzy08g/edit), [ArtWorld](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yGy2Mh3n6IhPxFu4XKnnMtPPi4OGFPpf-Z_TMYw6wQY/edit#slide=id.g7ba109823e_2_7)

### Trello Board - Due 4.19.23 (BOD)

- A [**Trello](https://trello.com/) board** with:
    
    **User Stories**, each moving from left to right in the following
    three lists in your board:
    
    - **Ice Box**
    - **Current/MVP**
    - **Completed User Stories** must follow the following template:
    ***As a <user role>, I want <feature>, because <reason>.***
    The *reason* is optional if it's blatantly obvious.
    - **Wireframes of the main pages of functionality**, e.g. Landing Page, Posts Index Page, Favorite Posts Page, Add Post Page, etc.
    - An **ERD** showing the attributes of each entity and the relationships between them. Refer to the Data Modeling lesson for assistance.

### Project Presentations - 4.24.23:

**Your entire team must participate in the presentation of the project.**

You will  present your project following these guidelines:

1. **Introduce the Project:**
    - Intro your project by paraphrasing the README.
2. **Demonstrate the Project:**
    - Launch the project by clicking the link in the README.
    - Sign up a new user, then immediately log out.
    - Log in with your preferred user and demonstrate the features of the app.
    - Be sure to demo the qualifying CRUD data operations.
3. **Show/discuss your code:**
    - The "main"  model
    - Your "favorite" view method
    - Your "favorite" UX feature component
4. **Share the experience:**
    - What was your biggest challenge? (besides Team Git Workflow)
    - What are your key learnings/takeaways?
5. **Q & A + Feedback**

Time requirements for presentations: 

- 5-10 minutes (SOLO)
- 10-15 minutes (TEAM)
****

---

## Project Workflow: Implementing User Stories

1. After all of the user stories that you can think of are defined in the Ice Box list, prioritize them your with your "wish list" items at the bottom.
2. After the prioritization, move the user stories for the MVP to the Current/MVP list. FYI, the MVP (Minimum Viable Product) in this case consists of the minimal user stories that will result in the project requirements being fulfilled.
3. After the user story at the top of the Current/MVP list is implemented, move it to the Completed list.
4. When there are no more user stories in the Current/MVP list - focus on ensuring that the app's features look polished!
5. After the MVP's features look great and if time permits, the user story from the top of the Ice Box list may be implemented. Ensure that each Ice Box user story's feature is polished before moving on to another user story in the Ice Box.

---

## SOLO Technical Requirements

- A **working** full-stack, single-page application hosted on Heroku.
- Incorporate the technologies of the Django **stack**:
    - Django Web Framework
    - PostgreSQL
    - Heroku
- **Have a well-styled interactive full stack application**.
- Implement session-based **authentication**.  Including the ability of a user to sign-up, log in & log out.
- Implement **authorization** by restricting CUD data functionality to authenticated users. Also, navigation should respond to the login status of the user.
- App must include least 2 models with 1:M data association (excluding base user model)
- **Have a well-scoped feature-set which includes CRUD functionality across your application.**
- Full-CRUD data operations are not required if one or more other features are included, for example:
    - Consume data from a third-party API.
    - Implement additional functionality if the user is an admin.
    - Implementation of a highly dynamic UI or data visualization.
    - Unit testing using [Django Testing tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Testing)
- Other, instructor approved, complexity/features.

## Team Technical Requirements

Same as above, plus: 

- App must include least 3 models with an example of 1:M data association and at least 1 M:N association (excluding base user model)
- 3rd party CSS framework (that is not Materialize)

### Other Requirements:

Teams must **manage team contributions and collaboration** using Git/GitHub team work-flow.  Here are some references:

- [Team Workflow Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFYyTZwMyAg)
- [Cheat Sheet in Class Repo](https://www.notion.so/resources/git_workflow_team_cheatsheet.md)
- [Understanding the GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/)

All team members need to have significant contributions to the project via git commits.

### Documentation Requirements (SOLO/TEAM)

A `README.md` file with these sections:

- **App Title:** Contains a description of what the app does and optional background info.
- **Screenshot(s):** A screenshot of your app's landing page and any other screenshots of interest.
- **Technologies Used**: List of the technologies used.
- **Getting Started**: That Includes:
    - A link to the **deployed app** (Heroku)
    - A link to the **Trello board** used for the project's planning that includes user stories, wireframes & an ERD.
    - A link to the **pitch-deck**.
- **Next Steps**: Planned future enhancements (icebox items).

> Note: Don't underestimate the value of a well crafted README.md. The README.md introduces your project to prospective employers and forms their first impression of your work!
> 

---

## Suggestions for Success

1. **Use [Mob Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mob_programming)** where the team is always developing together on a single computer. Read [this post](http://underthehood.meltwater.com/blog/2016/06/01/mob-programming/) for more information. **All students will get more out of the project by following Mob Programming!** Be sure to rotate who the driver is (typing the code) frequently so that every team member makes commits on the project.
2. **Identify roles** on the team, which may be:
    - **GitHub Manager (required role)**: the primary person for "owning"/managing the repo and GitHub team workflow (merging pull requests, etc.).
    - **Scrum Master**: the leader of the Agile processes (user stories, stand-ups, etc.) and manager of Trello.
    - **Documenter**: the person in charge of the README, etc.
    - **Designer**: the person in charge of UI design/layout (wireframes) and styling.
    - **Database manager**: this person will be in charge of creating and managing the models.
    
    Other than the **GitHub Manager**, you *don't have to formally fulfill any of the other roles!* They are only listed to provide ideas/guidance.
    
3. For help with implementing a feature, review the relevant lesson(s), read the docs, then Google only if necessary.
4. **Be consistent with your code style.** You have multiple developers in your team writing code, but you only have one app per team. Make sure it looks like a unified effort in regards to formatting, etc. For example, consistent vertical whitespace between functions.
5. Do your best to have only one dev working on a certain file between commits. This will avoid merge conflicts. This is another reason to use Mob Programming!
6. **Commit early, commit often.**

## Best Practices

- **Be consistent** with your code style.
- **Clearly name variables classes and functions** - remember, variables are usually named as **nouns** and functions as **verbs**. Follow Django conventions found in the lesson materials as a guide.
- **Write well-formatted HTML, Python & CSS.** Properly formatting your code makes it more readable. Improperly formatted code infers sloppiness.
- **Comment your code where it makes sense to do so**. Most code is self-documenting (don't comment the obvious), however, use comments to explain complicated code.

## Obtaining Assistance from an Instructor

- Although your kind instructors will be available to assist during project time, the amount of assistance you require is expected to be minimal due to the fact that you will be collaborating as a team regularly.
- **All requests for assistance should be slacked to the class `debug` channel, not individual instructors**. This approach will provide the best and quickest response for your team, as well as be helpful to other teams that may be faced with the same issue.

## Tokens & Extended Support

The purpose of this project is for you to show us and future employers what you're capable of, so we want as much of the project to be your own, independent work as possible. Therefore, each team will be given 4 (four) tokens to ask for help. Each token will give you 20 minutes of one-on-one consultation time with an instructor.

Tokens are redeemable during office hours or as determined by your Instructional Team outside of those hours. Tokens cannot be transferred between teams - there is no secondary market for tokens.

**You should use this time to ask for constructive feedback or recommendations on an approach you're taking in your code or application's architecture.  Come prepared with specific questions.**

An instructor or IA will be assigned to each team and will check in with your team briefly every day (whether via Slack or on Zoom). The purpose of these check-ins is NOT to discuss technical questions, but to answer questions about workflow and get a status check-in.

---

## Project Feedback + Evaluation

- Your instructors will be using a Code Review Model for projects to determine whether or not the project passes all of the minimum requirements. (Some differences will be present depending on scope/team make up).
- If your instructors determine that your project would pass with minor fixes, you will be required to address the minor deficiencies by 9 am the following day of class. Please be sure to inform your local instructor when the fixes are complete. FYI, "minor fixes" are minor items that can be fixed very quickly, like code formatting, correcting the README, etc.
- If your instructors determine that the project does not meet the minimum requirements you may request to address the deficiencies identified and resubmit the project. However, be aware that **there is only a single opportunity to resubmit a project or project assessment during the course**.
- Feedback will provided using the guidelines covered in this [Code Review document](../../Code%20Review%20-%20Project%20Guidelines%20b23f0fe1404c4283a9b238c4a7fe3432.md) P3 example rubric.

---