# Py Linked List  -  Review

Talking about theory is a lot of fun, but what better way is there for us to understand linked lists than by creating them ourselves?

If you were to implement a linked list, you would create instances of linked lists, much like you create instances of lists and dictionaries. Although we are used to using literals to create arrays (`[]`) and dictionaries (`{}`), remember that we are able to instantiate them using constructor functions as well

```
my_list = list();
my_dict = dict();

```

When you do your exercises, your goal will be to create a `LinkedList` class, which you would then be able to invoke with the below syntax to create shiny new linked list objects.

```
my_linked_list = LinkedList();

```

### Python Class Syntax

```
 class LinkedList:
		pass

```

Now you have a class which can be used to create shiny new objects that are instances of our LinkedList class. However, if we were to create an instance of this class, it would just be an empty object. If we want our objects to hold properties, we will use the `__init__` method to assign properties to them!

The  `__init__` is a method that you add to your class, in which you provide the properties for your objects to have. You should always use the `self` keyword to define the property, and then the value can be whatever you want it to be.

```
class LinkedList:
     __init__(self):
        self.head = null;

```

Well, what if you wanted your properties to have values that can be provided when instantiated? A typical example of this would be assigning a name to an instance of the Human class. Or for linked lists, our nodes would have data. For that, we will create parameters for the `__init__` method

```
class Node:
     __init__(self,data):
        self.data = data;

my_node = Node(4);

```

Finally, let's talk about `instance methods`. Some famous instance methods you know might be the `list.append()` and `list.pop()` methods. These are functions that you invoke on specific instances of your class, and they can be defined like this:

```

class Node:
     __init__(self,data):
        self.data = data
				self.next = None

class LinkedList:
    def __init__(self):
        self.head = None

    def append_node(self, data):
        if self.head is None:
            self.head = Node(data)
            return

        current = self.head

        while current.next != None:
            current = current.next

        current.next = Node(data)

my_list = LinkedList()

my_list.append_node(4)

```

If you ever need to refer to properties of the object that we are using, you must preface the property name with `self`!