# Plagiarism

### **Statement**

YourCourse takes academic honesty very seriously and will not tolerate any student who plagiarizes in order to satisfy course requirements. Immersive programs at YourCourse are intensive and require a lot of work on the part of the student. That said, students will occasionally not be able to complete work in a timely fashion.

Rather than rely on work that's not your own to create the appearance of success, let your instructional team know as early as possible that you are not prepared for the work. It is much easier to come up with a plan than it is to succeed if you've been removed from the program.

### **Definition**

Plagiarism is the act of claiming work that does not belong to you as your own. It can take many forms, and each concentration at YourCourse will have slightly different guidelines for identifying plagiarism in their fields.

## Coding Plagiarism

### What is it?

- copying another student's code
- copying another student's code and altering it to look like yours
- copying a solution to a homework question, lab, or project that you found online
- copying a solution to a homework question, lab, or project that you found online and altering it to look like yours

### What is it not?

- finding syntax online that will help you build the solution that you came up with
- asking another student to debug your code or help you work with your own solution. Note, this is not "what did you get for question 1?"

### How to stay safe

- Come up with your own idea about how to solve the problem and find syntax online to help you create it
- Do not try to find the answer to how to solve the problem online or get it from another student
- If you use a chunk of code that is more than a few lines long, even if you alter it, cite it with a comment in your code. Give either a link to the site or the student that gave it to you. If what you're citing is the vast majoritiy of your solution, it's probably plagiarized

Generally, it is safe to assume that, if you are including work that does not belong to you in an effort to build upon your own work, you can and should cite it. If you are using work that does not belong to you as a replacement for your own work, you are probably plagiarizing.
